= downlow

Downloading files on the DL

== Installation

  gem install downlow
  
Tested against Ruby 1.8.7 and 1.9.1

== What

Why is downloading and extracting files such a pain in Ruby?

Downlow to the rescue.

  $ irb -rubygems -rdownlow
  >> DL('http://gist.github.com/gists/290151/download', '~/Desktop/gist')
  => #<Pathname:/Users/aaronquint/Desktop/gist>
  
  $ ls -l ~/Desktop/gist/
  total 8
  drwxrwxr-x  3 aaronquint  aaronquint  102 Jan 30 00:17 gist290151-4d195b0fc72a4b5e52f8e2b5d1670d078c03a018
  
  >> DL('git://github.com/quirkey/resque-status.git', '~/Desktop')
  Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/aaronquint/Sites/__active/downlow/tmp/resque-status/.git/
  remote: Counting objects: 323, done.
  remote: Compressing objects: 100% (186/186), done.
  remote: Total 323 (delta 166), reused 169 (delta 83)
  Receiving objects: 100% (323/323), 42.84 KiB, done.
  Resolving deltas: 100% (166/166), done.
  => #<Pathname:/Users/aaronquint/Desktop/resque-status>
  
Sweet.

BONUS BEATS FOR GITHUB
Downloads the tarball and extracts.

  >> DL('gh://quirkey/sammy', ~/Desktop')
  
  
== Usage

Downlow is comprised of two main features: Fetchers and Extractors. 
They do what they sound like they do.

To just fetch a remote (or local file or directory)

  Downlow::Fetcher.fetch('remote', :destination => 'local')
  
Fetcher currently handles these styles of URL

  Git (git://)
  HTTP (http://)
  Github (gh://user/project)
  Local (anything else)

Extractors take a local file, and extract them based on their extension:

  Downlow::Extractor.extract('local.archive', :destination => 'directory')
  
The extractors currently supported are

  .tar.gz
  .zip
  dir (everything else)

DL() is just an alias for Downlow.get() which is just a wrapper around 
.fetch() and then .extract()

== Thanks

Thanks to @mxcl for the awesome pathname extensions in homebrew/
Thanks to @defunkt as I took some ideas from rip.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Aaron Quint. See LICENSE for details.
